# SudokuSolver

  Tom and Max had a simple problem. They were bright, but when it came to numbers, they tended to leave it to a calulator to solve problems. One night, bored and looking for something new to try, Max decides to give a game of Sudoku a try. That game of Sudoku ended up taking all of his brainpower to wrap his head around. Even after asking Tom for help, the two spent an absurd amount of time trying to find the right combination of numbers to solve the puzzle. Disgruntled and looking for a programing project worth their time, the two gentlemen had their eyes and minds set on one goal: make something to solve sudoku puzzles for them.

## In Simpliest Terms...

  The python program SudokuSolver is a two part system. Part A (solver.py) does exactly what we set out to make: given a sudoku puzzle, the solver outputs a completed version of the puzzle to the user. Part B (puzzle.py) does a little more, creating solvable sudoku puzzles using the *random* python library. This allows the user to test their skills with a completely random, yet solvable puzzle, and have the solver check their work for them. These programs work in tandum with sudokuSolver.py, allowing the user to either input a puzzle that has been giving them trouble or generate a new puzzle to test their skills. 

## Solver.py
  The puzzle is inputted by the user or generated by the puzzle.py program, which is determined by the user with sudokuSolver.py. The solver then uses recursion and a for loop to check each row and collumn for an opening in the puzzle grid. If there is an opening found, the solver loops through every number from 1-9 and then passes that number into the solve function, which in turn checks whether or not you can use that number in that position. If the number passes the check, the placeholder dot on the grid is then replaced with that number and the program returns to checking for new openings. If it doesn't pass the check, the solver tries a new number and starts the process again.
  
## Puzzle.py
  At the startup of sudokuSolver.py, puzzle.py creates an already solved puzzle using the conditions of a sudoku puzzle. The program then loops through the puzzle and repleaces some of the correct numbers with 0s. (The 0's appear as dots in the puzzle board on the user's end) puzzle.py has 2 export functions: getPuzzle, which returns a generated puzzle board for use in printPuzzle, and printPuzzle, which imports a puzzle board either from the user's inputs or grabs the puzzle generated at startup using getPuzzle and prints the board for the user to see. 
